---
layout: post
title: How to Re-touch an image with the Clone Stamp.
---

How to used the Clone Stamp Tool in Photoshop.

Adobe Photoshop is software used as a pixel-base image editor. It composes raster images in multiple layers, 
providing special effects services, such as backgrounds, masks and transparency. You may as well make some 
adjustments with the brightness/contrast, color balance or the exposure of the image. These adjustments will
change the style and aspect of the original image. On this how to I will be teaching the basics of "Clone Stamp" 
a Photoshop Tool. With the clone stamp tool you can make some adjustments to the image like fix or eliminate things 
out of the picture. These adjustments will change the style and the aspect of the original image. This tutorial will
be focus on re-touching a self-image.

We will be using Adobe Photoshop and a personal image of a model. Follow us step-by-step and in no time you will be a master!

Step I.

Open Photoshop and take one of your personal photos or go to google and type “unedited photography”, we can find unlimited 
close up photos or how we call it today selfies. ! Drag it or click Command + O and open the image on Photoshop.
(I have select one of my photographies, is an image for a fashion photo shoot).

Step II.

On this tutorial will be making some adjustments;

-remove the eye bags
-clean the skin bubbles on her face

Is important to keep in mind that, when working with close up pictures you should not distort much the original image,
unless that is the purpose. But is always fun to play a little bit with the adjustments, to provide a cinematic style 
to the photo.

 

Step III.

Make a duplicate the photo, that way you will be able to see the changes apply to the edited photo. Make sure the 
copy layer is selected. Double-clink on the layer and name it “Cloning Img”.

Now let’s start working on the forehead with the “Clone Stamp Tool”, which is located on the Photoshop Toolbar.
This tool allows you to clone a part of the picture you select and copy it onto another area. Afterwards choose a 
Brush (shape & size ) and change the opacity to a minimum of 15%. Once select the default settings, let’s go ahead
and used the Clone stamp tool to cover the skin bubbles and remove the eye bags.I am going to select a “Soft Round” brush
style, because the borders are blurry and it will apply the copy area that I have selected in a smoother way.

Step IV.

Select the area you want to copy from and place the brush on the area you wish to duplicate.  
Alt-click(Windows) or Option-click(Mac), the cursor automatically will change to a target. Click the exact 
spot you want to start copying from and release them on the spot you are trying to cover/fix. And “X” will be 
presented next to the brush, indicating the are from which the tool is cloning from. In my case I will select a 
clean spot on the forehead and apply it onto the areas that have skin bubbles.

Is important to pay attention to the direction and color of the light that is reflected on (in my case, the face). 
To maintain the same lighting effect is necessary to graduated the opacity and flow of the brush when cloning a stamp 
area. Also if necessary change the size of the brush, this will allow you flexibility on some particular areas.

Gently I will start to move the brush through the forehead like if I am applying foundation makeup. I will not
like to leave some parts uneven, and my goal is to have a clean and spotless skin.

 Step V.

The same process will be apply to the eye bags. In this area is better to used less opacity since they are dark circles. 
Starting from the left to the right, continue to can change the size and flow while cloning. Once apply a select area
onto another one, I recommended to clone the same duplicated area and again paste it into a new area. That way you will
maintain the direction of the color and light effect. The X target will be closer or further from the brush depending 
on the proximity of both the area you want to copy and the area you want to duplicate. Depending of the light, for some 
areas is better to have the X further from the brush. 

Step VI.

It is optional to continue to used the clone stamp tool until you feel that all spots are even and cover. Remember every 
photo is different and is up to you to apply the whatever style interests you. Don't forget to click on the original photo 
and preview the differences and what a little cloning can to do cover the imperfections.

Thanks for your attention, hope the tutorial was  helpful. Start practicing some more and you'll become a PRO.
Until next time!!
